Mas is a lecturer at Columbia Law School
he's joining us from New York thanks
very much for being with us what in your
interpretation happened when these
arrests took
place so I and other faculty members
were horrified last week as we watched
uh 108 students get arrested on the
south lawn of columia university for
standing in solidarity uh with the
people of Raza and asking Columbia to
devest from the Israeli War there um it
was appalling to many of us that the
columb president went straight to
calling NYPD New York Police Department
into campus Without Really Trying to do
anything to the escalate first this is a
really outrageous step that the
president went to um these are students
who pay tuition to be here they're in
our care and we should uh be protecting
them and creating a space for free
speech and freedom of expression not
calling police Riot police to remove
them from campus I'm reading here that
the NYPD commissioner Edward C said that
the students quote that were arrested
were peaceful offered no resistance
whatsoever and were saying what they
wanted to say what was the reaction are
you aware of what they the reaction was
when the police arrived and what the
interaction between the police and the
students
was yes so I was at the protest about 30
minutes ago uh the camp is back up um
it's peaceful there's students there uh
talking studying it's the same as it was
last week there was really no
justification for calling in Riot police
to remove protesters who are sitting
peacefully on a lawn not holding
buildings not disrupting classes not
preventing people from going to class um
really just holding space and calling on
the university to divest um so the fact
that you know in response to that the
school went straight to calling at the
police is pretty outrageous and it's why
more than 100 faculty members from
Columbia walked out of class yesterday
uh to protest this reaction it's why the
president of the university is currently
facing a censor vote um and it's also
why the New York civil liberties Union
our own Human Rights Institute here at
Columbia have all condemned uh the that
the president went straight to the
police here we should also note that
it's not just the police the
University's also suspended these
students without any kind of due process
um many of the students have been
evicted from their dormitories
dormitories that they pay for uh some
given just 15 minutes to gather their
belongings and so overall it's been a
Draconian punitive response to these
protests um in a situation that really
doesn't Merit it there's no
justification for this when students are
really just sitting on a law doing their
homework correct me if I'm wrong but I I
understand that the encampment had been
timed there was a congressional
testimony that was being given by the
Columbia president Manu safik that was
taking place the same day the um on the
University's response uh she was going
to be talking about the University's
response to anti-Semitism now those
Congressional hearings as we've heard in
the past or seen in the past can be very
tense they can be very um um they can
the certainly the educationalist can be
held to account account significantly do
you think that that has in some way
influenced the decision by the the The
Faculty to bring in the
police so to to be clear there it was
not the faculty that brought in the
police it was the University president
The Faculty did not support this move
student Senate Columbia Senate did not
support this move and it was a
unilateral decision made by the
president against the wishes of many
faculty to bring in the police here um
it is true that the camp came up on the
day that the president was testifying in
Congress um I should note that this
follows months and months of actions
from students um to push the college the
university on this issue so it's not
something that spread started last week
this is student organizing that's have
been happening for many months now and
has now culminated in an encampment that
the students are holding um I think
students were disappointed that the
president in her remarks to Congress uh
did not push back against accusations of
anti-Semitism from students uh did not
really try to uh you know create a
distinction between hate speech and
promotion of Human Rights and so there's
a lot of anger I think right now on
campus for the actions of the presid
forgive me for interrupting you but I
mean thanks for the clarification that
this was a unilateral decision made by
the president it used to be that
universities and schools and colleges
were supposed to be hot beds of protest
that was part of the educational process
it was part of a student life How
concerned are you do you think given
what you've uh gone through and what the
students are going through that this
will have an impact on uh the the
confidence that students might have to
hold protests like
this I think it's very dangerous uh
infringement on what is really a proud
culture of protest and proud history of
protests here at Columbia and in many
universities around the country and as
we seen now it's not just Colombia but
there's protest and C is popping up in
universities around the country um it's
anytime police are brought into
Crackdown on students like this it of
course chills Free Speech uh to the
students credit they don't seem to be
backing down and and are back out on the
lawn really within the same day that the
the original CET was shut down Bas Kaja
we appreciate your time so thank you
very much indeed
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from alaz